 P a g e | 25
 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone – J.K. Rowling
 Dudley began to cry loudly. In fact, he wasn’t really crying — it had been
 years since he’d really cried —
 but he knew that if he screwed up his face and
 wailed, his mother would give him anything he
 wanted.
 “Dinky Duddydums, don’t cry, Mummy won’t let him
 spoil your special day!” she cried, flinging her arms
 around him.
 “I … don’t … want … him … t-t-to come!” Dudley
 yelled between huge, pretend sobs. “He always sp
spoils everything!” He shot Harry a nasty grin through
the gap in his mothers arms.
 Just then, the doorbell rang — “Oh, good Lord,
 they’re here!” said Aunt Petunia frantically — and a
 moment later, Dudley’s best friend, Piers Polkiss,
 walked in with his mother. Piers was a scrawny boy
 with a face like a rat. He was usually the one who
 held people’s arms behind their backs while Dudley
 hit them. Dudley stopped pretending to cry at once.
 Half an hour later, Harry, who couldn’t believe his
 luck, was sitting in the back of the Dursleys’ car with
 Piers and Dudley, on the way to the zoo for the first
 time in his life. His aunt and uncle hadn’t been able
 to think of anything else to do with him, but before
 they’d left, Uncle Vernon had taken Harry aside.
 “I’m warning you,” he had said, putting his large
 purple face right up close to Harry’s, “I’m warning you
 now, boy — any funny business, anything at all —
 and you’ll be in that cupboard from now until
 Christmas.”
 I’m not going to do anything,” said Harry, “honestly
…”
 P a g e | 26
 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone – J.K. Rowling
 But Uncle Vernon didn’t believe him. No one ever did.
 The problem was, strange things often happened
 around Harry and it was just no good telling the
 Dursleys he didn’t make them happen.
 Once, Aunt Petunia, tired of Harry coming back from
 the barbers looking as though he hadn’t been at all,
 had taken a pair of kitchen scissors and cut his hair
 so short he was almost bald except for his bangs,
 which she left “to hide that horrible scar.” Dudley had
 laughed himself silly at Harry, who spent a sleepless
 night imagining school the next day, where he was
 already laughed at for his baggy clothes and taped
 glasses. Next morning, however, he had gotten up to
 find his hair exactly as it had been before Aunt
 Petunia had sheared it off. He had been given a week
 in his cupboard for this, even though he had tried to
 explain that he couldn’t explain how it had grown
back so quickly.
 Another time, Aunt Petunia had been trying to force
 him into a revolting old sweater of Dudley’s (brown
 with orange puff balls). The harder she tried to pull it
 over his head, the smaller it seemed to become, until
 finally it might have fitted a hand puppet, but
 certainly wouldn’t fit Harry. Aunt Petunia had decided
 it must have shrunk in the wash and, to his great
 relief, Harry wasn’t punished.
 On the other hand, he’d gotten into terrible trouble
 for being found on the roof of the school kitchens.
 Dudley’s gang had been chasing him as usual when,
 as much to Harry’s surprise as anyone else’s, there he
 was sitting on the chimney. The Dursleys had
 received a very angry letter from Harry’s headmistress
 telling them Harry had been climbing school
 buildings. But all he’d tried to do (as he shouted at
 Uncle Vernon through the locked door of his
 P a g e | 27
 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone – J.K. Rowling
cupboard) was jump behind the big trash cans
 outside the kitchen doors. Harry supposed that the
 wind must have caught him in mid-jump.
 But today, nothing was going to go wrong. It was even
 worth being with Dudley and Piers to be spending the
 day somewhere that wasn’t school, his cupboard, or
 Mrs. Figg’s cabbage-smelling living room.
 While he drove, Uncle Vernon complained to Aunt
 Petunia. He liked to complain about things: people at
 work, Harry, the council, Harry, the bank, and Harry
 were just a few of his favorite subjects. This morning,
 it was motorcycles.
 “… roaring along like maniacs, the young hoodlums,”
 he said, as a motorcycle overtook them.
 “I had a dream about a motorcycle,” said Harry,
 remembering suddenly. “It was flying.”
 Uncle Vernon nearly crashed into the car in front. He
 turned right around in his seat and yelled at Harry,
 his face like a gigantic beet with a mustache:
 “MOTORCYCLES DON’T FLY!”
Dudley and Piers sniggered.
 “I know they don’t,” said Harry. “It was only a dream.”
 But he wished he hadn’t said anything. If there was
 one thing the Dursleys hated even more than his
 asking questions, it was his talking about anything
 acting in a way it shouldn’t, no matter if it was in a
 dream or even a cartoon — they seemed to think he
 might get dangerous ideas.
 It was a very sunny Saturday and the zoo was
 crowded with families. The Dursleys bought Dudley
 P a g e | 28
 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone – J.K. Rowling
 and Piers large chocolate ice creams at the entrance and then, because the
 smiling lady in the van had
 asked Harry what he wanted before they could hurry
 him away, they bought him a cheap lemon ice pop. It
 wasn’t bad, either, Harry thought, licking it as they
 watched a gorilla scratching its head who looked
 remarkably like Dudley, except that it wasn’t blond.
 Harry had the best morning he’d had in a long time.
 He was careful to walk a little way apart from the
Dursleys so that Dudley and Piers, who were starting
 to get bored with the animals by lunchtime, wouldn’t
 fall back on their favorite hobby of hitting him. They
 ate in the zoo restaurant, and when Dudley had a
 tantrum because his knickerbocker glory didn’t have
 enough ice cream on top, Uncle Vernon bought him
 another one and Harry was allowed to finish the first.
 Harry felt, afterward, that he should have known it
 was all too good to last.
 After lunch they went to the reptile house. It was cool
 and dark in there, with lit windows all along the
 walls. Behind the glass, all sorts of lizards and snakes
 were crawling and slithering over bits of wood and
 stone. Dudley and Piers wanted to see huge,
 poisonous cobras and thick, man-crushing pythons.
 Dudley quickly found the largest snake in the place. It
 could have wrapped its body twice around Uncle
 Vernon’s car and crushed it into a trash can — but at
 the moment it didn’t look in the mood. In fact, it was
 fast asleep.
Dudley stood with his nose pressed against the glass,
 staring at the glistening brown coils.
 “Make it move,” he whined at his father. Uncle Vernon
 tapped on the glass, but the snake didn’t budge.
 P a g e | 29
 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone – J.K. Rowling
 “Do it again,” Dudley ordered. Uncle Vernon rapped
 the glass smartly with his knuckles, but the snake
 just snoozed on.
 “This is boring,” Dudley moaned. He shuffled away.
 Harry moved in front of the tank and looked intently
 at the snake. He wouldn’t have been surprised if it
 had died of boredom itself — no company except
 stupid people drumming their fingers on the glass
 trying to disturb it all day long. It was worse than
 having a cupboard as a bedroom, where the only
 visitor was Aunt Petunia hammering on the door to
 wake you up; at least he got to visit the rest of the
 house.
 The snake suddenly opened its beady eyes. Slowly,
very slowly, it raised its head until its eyes were on a
 level with Harry’s.
 It winked.
 Harry stared. Then he looked quickly around to see if
 anyone was watching. They weren’t. He looked back
 at the snake and winked, too.
 The snake jerked its head toward Uncle Vernon and
 Dudley, then raised its eyes to the ceiling. It gave
 Harry a look that said quite plainly:
 “I get that all the time. ”
 “I know,” Harry murmured through the glass, though
 he wasn’t sure the snake could hear him. “It must be
 really annoying.”
 The snake nodded vigorously.
 “Where do you come from, anyway?” Harry asked.
 P a g e | 30
 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone – J.K. Rowling
 The snake jabbed its tail at a little sign next to the glass. Harry peered at it.
 Boa Constrictor, Brazil.
 “Was it nice there?”
very slowly, it raised its head until its eyes were on a
 level with Harry’s.
 It winked.
 Harry stared. Then he looked quickly around to see if
 anyone was watching. They weren’t. He looked back
 at the snake and winked, too.
 The snake jerked its head toward Uncle Vernon and
 Dudley, then raised its eyes to the ceiling. It gave
 Harry a look that said quite plainly:
 “I get that all the time. ”
 “I know,” Harry murmured through the glass, though
 he wasn’t sure the snake could hear him. “It must be
 really annoying.”
 The snake nodded vigorously.
 “Where do you come from, anyway?” Harry asked.
 P a g e | 30
 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone – J.K. Rowling
 The snake jabbed its tail at a little sign next to the glass. Harry peered at it.
 Boa Constrictor, Brazil.
 “Was it nice there?”
As the snake slid swiftly past him, Harry could have
 sworn a low, hissing voice said, “Brazil, here I come.
 … Thanksss, amigo.”
 The keeper of the reptile house was in shock.
 P a g e | 31
 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone – J.K. Rowling
 “But the glass,” he kept saying, “where did the glass go?”
 The zoo director himself made Aunt Petunia a cup of
 strong, sweet tea while he apologized over and over
 again. Piers and Dudley could only gibber. As far as
 Harry had seen, the snake hadn’t done anything
 except snap playfully at their heels as it passed, but
 by the time they were all back in Uncle Vernon’s car,
 Dudley was telling them how it had nearly bitten off
 his leg, while Piers was swearing it had tried to
 squeeze him to death. But worst of all, for Harry at
 least, was Piers calming down enough to say, “Harry
 was talking to it, weren’t you, Harry?”
 Uncle Vernon waited until Piers was safely out of the
 house before starting on Harry. He was so angry he
could hardly speak. He managed to say, “Go —
 cupboard — stay — no meals,” before he collapsed
 into a chair, and Aunt Petunia had to run and get
 him a large brandy.
 Harry lay in his dark cupboard much later, wishing
 he had a watch. He didn’t know what time it was and
 he couldn’t be sure the Dursleys were asleep yet.
 Until they were, he couldn’t risk sneaking to the
 kitchen for some food.
 He’d lived with the Dursleys almost ten years, ten
 miserable years, as long as he could remember, ever
 since he’d been a baby and his parents had died in
 that car crash. He couldn’t remember being in the car
 when his parents had died. Sometimes, when he
 strained his memory during long hours in his
 cupboard, he came up with a strange vision: a
 blinding flash of green light and a burning pain on his
 forehead. This, he supposed, was the crash, though
 he couldn’t imagine where all the green light came
 from. He couldn’t remember his parents at all. His
P a g e | 32
 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone – J.K. Rowling
 aunt and uncle never spoke about them, and of
 course he was forbidden to ask questions. There were
 no photographs of them in the house.
 When he had been younger, Harry had dreamed and
 dreamed of some unknown relation coming to take
 him away, but it had never happened; the Dursleys
 were his only family. Yet sometimes he thought (or
 maybe hoped) that strangers in the street seemed to
 know him. Very strange strangers they were, too. A
 tiny man in a violet top hat had bowed to him once
 while out shopping with Aunt Petunia and Dudley.
 After asking Harry furiously if he knew the man, Aunt
 Petunia had rushed them out of the shop without
 buying anything. A wild-looking old woman dressed
 all in green had waved merrily at him once on a bus.
 A bald man in a very long purple coat had actually
 shaken his hand in the street the other day and then
 walked away without a word. The weirdest thing
about all these people was the way they seemed to
 vanish the second Harry tried to get a closer look.
 At school, Harry had no one. Everybody knew that
 Dudley’s gang hated that odd Harry Potter in his
 baggy old clothes and broken glasses, and nobody
 liked to disagree with Dudley’s gang.
 P a g e | 33
 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone – J.K. Rowling
 THE LETTERS FROM NO ONE
 The escape of the Brazilian boa constrictor earned
 Harry his longest-ever punishment. By the time he
 was allowed out of his cupboard again, the summer
 holidays had started and Dudley had already broken
 his new video camera, crashed his remote control
airplane, and, first time out on his racing bike,
 knocked down old Mrs. Figg as she crossed Privet
 Drive on her crutches.
 Harry was glad school was over, but there was no
 escaping Dudley’s gang, who visited the house every
 single day. Piers, Dennis, Malcolm, and Gordon were
 all big and stupid, but as Dudley was the biggest and
 stupidest of the lot, he was the leader. The rest of
 them were all quite happy to join in Dudley’s favorite
 sport: Harry Hunting.
 This was why Harry spent as much time as possible
 out of the house, wandering around and thinking
 about the end of the holidays, where he could see a
 tiny ray of hope. When September came he would be
 going off to secondary school and, for the first time in
 P a g e | 34
 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone – J.K. Rowling
 his life, he wouldn’t be with Dudley. Dudley had been accepted at Uncle
 Vernon’s old private school,
 Smeltings. Piers Polkiss was going there too. Harry,
 on the other hand, was going to Stonewall High, the
local public school. Dudley thought this was very
 funny.
 “They stuff people’s heads down the toilet the first day
 at Stonewall,” he told Harry. “Want to come upstairs
 and practice?”
 “No, thanks,” said Harry. “The poor toilet’s never had
 anything as horrible as your head down it — it might
 be sick.” Then he ran, before Dudley could work out
 what he’d said.
 One day in July, Aunt Petunia took Dudley to London
 to buy his Smeltings uniform, leaving Harry at Mrs.
 Figg’s. Mrs. Figg wasn’t as bad as usual. It turned out
 she’d broken her leg tripping over one of her cats, and
 she didn’t seem quite as fond of them as before. She
 let Harry watch television and gave him a bit of
 chocolate cake that tasted as though she’d had it for
 several years.
 That evening, Dudley paraded around the living room
 for the family in his brand-new uniform. Smeltings
 boys wore maroon tailcoats, orange knickerbockers,
and flat straw hats called boaters. They also carried
 knobbly sticks, used for hitting each other while the
 teachers weren’t looking. This was supposed to be
 good training for later life.
 As he looked at Dudley in his new knickerbockers,
 Uncle Vernon said gruffly that it was the proudest
 moment of his life. Aunt Petunia burst into tears and
 said she couldn’t believe it was her Ickle Dudleykins,
 he looked so handsome and grown-up. Harry didn’t
 P a g e | 35
 Harry Potter and the Philosophers Stone – J.K. Rowling
 trust himself to speak. He thought two of his ribs
 might already have cracked from trying not to laugh.
 * * *
 There was a horrible smell in the kitchen the next
 morning when Harry went in for breakfast. It seemed
 to be coming from a large metal tub in the sink. He
 went to have a look. The tub was full of what looked
 like dirty rags swimming in gray water.
 “What’s this?” he asked Aunt Petunia. Her lips
tightened as they always did if he dared to ask a
 question.
 “Your new school uniform,” she said.
 Harry looked in the bowl again.
 “Oh,” he said, “I didn’t realize it had to be so wet.”
 “Don’t be stupid,” snapped Aunt Petunia. “I’m dyeing
 some of Dudley’s old things gray for you. It’ll look just
 like everyone else’s when I’ve finished.”
 Harry seriously doubted this, but thought it best not
 to argue. He sat down at the table and tried not to
 think about how he was going to look on his first day
 at Stonewall High — like he was wearing bits of old
 elephant skin, probably.
 Dudley and Uncle Vernon came in, both with
 wrinkled noses because of the smell from Harry’s new
 uniform. Uncle Vernon opened his newspaper as
 usual and Dudley banged his Smelting stick, which
 he carried everywhere, on the table.
 They heard the click of the mail slot and flop of letters
 on the doormat.