 P a g e | 100 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets – J.K. Rowling
 Judging by Professor Sprout’s scowl, she did mind, but Lockhart said,
 “That’s the ticket,” and closed the
 greenhouse door in her face.
 “Harry,” said Lockhart, his large white teeth gleaming
 in the sunlight as he shook his head. “Harry, Harry,
 Harry.”
Completely nonplussed, Harry said nothing.
 “When I heard — well, of course, it was all my fault.
 Could have kicked myself.”
 Harry had no idea what he was talking about. He was
 about to say so when Lockhart went on, “Don’t know
 when I’ve been more shocked. Flying a car to
 Hogwarts! Well, of course, I knew at once why you’d
 done it. Stood out a mile. Harry, Harry, Harry. ”
 It was remarkable how he could show every one of
 those brilliant teeth even when he wasn’t talking.
 “Gave you a taste for publicity, didn’t I?” said
 Lockhart. “Gave you the bug. You got onto the front
 page of the paper with me and you couldn’t wait to do
 it again.”
 “Oh, no, Professor, see —”
 “Harry, Harry, Harry,” said Lockhart, reaching out
 and grasping his shoulder. “I understand. Natural to
 want a bit more once you’ve had that first taste —
 and I blame myself for giving you that, because it was
 bound to go to your head — but see here, young man,
you can’t start flying cars to try and get yourself
 noticed. Just calm down, all right? Plenty of time for
 all that when you’re older. Yes, yes, I know what
 you’re thinking! ‘It’s all right for him, he’s an
 internationally famous wizard already!’ But when I
 P a g e | 101 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets – J.K. Rowling
 was twelve, I was just as much of a nobody as you are now. In fact, I’d say I
 was even more of a nobody! I
 mean, a few people have heard of you, haven’t they?
 All that business with He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named!”
 He glanced at the lightning scar on Harry’s forehead.
 “I know, I know — it’s not quite as good as winning
 Witch Weekly’s Most-Charming-Smile Award five
 times in a row, as I have — but it’s a start, Harry, it’s
 a start. ”
 He gave Harry a hearty wink and strode off. Harry
 stood stunned for a few seconds, then, remembering
 he was supposed to be in the greenhouse, he opened
 the door and slid inside.
 Professor Sprout was standing behind a trestle bench
 in the center of the greenhouse. About twenty pairs of
different-colored ear-muffs were lying on the bench.
 When Harry had taken his place between Ron and
 Hermione, she said, “We’ll be repotting Mandrakes
 today. Now, who can tell me the properties of the
 Mandrake?”
 To nobody’s surprise, Hermione’s hand was first into
 the air.
 “Mandrake, or Mandragora, is a powerful restorative,”
 said Hermione, sounding as usual as though she had
 swallowed the textbook. “It is used to return people
 who have been transfigured or cursed to their original
 state.”
 “Excellent. Ten points to Gryffindor,” said Professor
 Sprout. “The Mandrake forms an essential part of
 most antidotes. It is also, however, dangerous. Who
 can tell me why?”
 Hermione’s hand narrowly missed Harry’s glasses as
 it shot up again.
 P a g e | 102 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets – J.K. Rowling
 “The cry of the Mandrake is fatal to anyone who hears it,” she said
 promptly.
“Precisely. Take another ten points,” said Professor
 Sprout. “Now, the Mandrakes we have here are still
 very young.”
 She pointed to a row of deep trays as she spoke, and
 everyone shuffled forward for a better look. A hundred
 or so tufty little plants, purplish green in color, were
 growing there in rows. They looked quite
 unremarkable to Harry, who didn’t have the slightest
 idea what Hermione meant by the “cry” of the
 Mandrake.
 “Everyone take a pair of earmuffs,” said Professor
 Sprout.
 There was a scramble as everyone tried to seize a pair
 that wasn’t pink and fluffy.
 “When I tell you to put them on, make sure your ears
 are completely covered,” said Professor Sprout. “When
 it is safe to remove them, I will give you the thumbs
up. Right — earmuffs on. ”
 Harry snapped the earmuffs over his ears. They shut
 out sound completely. Professor Sprout put the pink,
fluffy pair over her own ears, rolled up the sleeves of
 her robes, grasped one of the tufty plants firmly, and
 pulled hard.
 Harry let out a gasp of surprise that no one could
 hear.
 Instead of roots, a small, muddy, and extremely ugly
 baby popped out of the earth. The leaves were
 growing right out of his head. He had pale green,
 P a g e | 103 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets – J.K. Rowling
 mottled skin, and was clearly bawling at the top of his lungs.
 Professor Sprout took a large plant pot from under
 the table and plunged the Mandrake into it, burying
 him in dark, damp compost until only the tufted
 leaves were visible. Professor Sprout dusted off her
 hands, gave them all the thumbs-up, and removed
 her own earmuffs.
 “As our Mandrakes are only seedlings, their cries
 won’t kill yet,” she said calmly as though she’d just
 done nothing more exciting than water a begonia.
 “However, they will knock you out for several hours,
and as I’m sure none of you want to miss your first
 day back, make sure your earmuffs are securely in
 place while you work. I will attract your attention
 when it is time to pack up.
 “Four to a tray — there is a large supply of pots here
 — compost in the sacks over there — and be careful
 of the Venomous Tentacula, it’s teething.”
 She gave a sharp slap to a spiky, dark red plant as
 she spoke, making it draw in the long feelers that had
 been inching sneakily over her shoulder.
 Harry, Ron, and Hermione were joined at their tray by
 a curly-haired Hufflepuff boy Harry knew by sight but
 had never spoken to.
 “Justin Finch-Fletchley,” he said brightly, shaking
 Harry by the hand. “Know who you are, of course, the
 famous Harry Potter. … And you’re Hermione Granger
 — always top in everything” (Hermione beamed as she
 had her hand shaken too) “— and Ron Weasley.
 Wasn’t that your flying car?”
 P a g e | 104 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets – J.K. Rowling
Ron didn’t smile. The Howler was obviously still on his mind.
 “That Lockhart’s something, isn’t he?” said Justin
 happily as they began filling their plant pots with
 dragon dung compost. “Awfully brave chap. Have you
 read his books? I’d have died of fear if I’d been
 cornered in a telephone booth by a werewolf, but he
 stayed cool and — zap — just fantastic.
 “My name was down for Eton, you know. I can’t tell
 you how glad I am I came here instead. Of course,
 Mother was slightly disappointed, but since I made
 her read Lockhart’s books I think she’s begun to see
 how useful it’ll be to have a fully trained wizard in the
 family. …”
 After that they didn’t have much chance to talk. Their
 earmuffs were back on and they needed to
 concentrate on the Mandrakes. Professor Sprout had
 made it look extremely easy, but it wasn’t. The
 Mandrakes didn’t like coming out of the earth, but
 didn’t seem to want to go back into it either. They
 squirmed, kicked, flailed their sharp little fists, and
gnashed their teeth; Harry spent ten whole minutes
 trying to squash a particularly fat one into a pot.
 By the end of the class, Harry, like everyone else, was
 sweaty, aching, and covered in earth. Everyone
 traipsed back to the castle for a quick wash and then
 the Gryffindors hurried off to Transfiguration.
 Professor McGonagall’s classes were always hard
 work, but today was especially difficult. Everything
 Harry had learned last year seemed to have leaked
 out of his head during the summer. He was supposed
 to be turning a beetle into a button, but all he
 managed to do was give his beetle a lot of exercise as
 it scuttled over the desktop avoiding his wand.
 P a g e | 105 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets – J.K. Rowling
 Ron was having far worse problems. He had patched
 up his wand with some borrowed Spellotape, but it
 seemed to be damaged beyond repair. It kept
 crackling and sparking at odd moments, and every
 time Ron tried to transfigure his beetle it engulfed
 him in thick gray smoke that smelled of rotten eggs.
Unable to see what he was doing, Ron accidentally
 squashed his beetle with his elbow and had to ask for
 a new one. Professor McGonagall wasn’t pleased.
 Harry was relieved to hear the lunch bell. His brain
 felt like a wrung sponge. Everyone filed out of the
 classroom except him and Ron, who was whacking
 his wand furiously on the desk.
 “Stupid — useless — thing —”
 “Write home for another one,” Harry suggested as the
 wand let off a volley of bangs like a firecracker.
 “Oh, yeah, and get another Howler back,” said Ron,
 stuffing the now hissing wand into his bag. “ ‘ It’s your
 own fault your wand got snapped —’ ”
 They went down to lunch, where Ron’s mood was not
 improved by Hermione’s showing them the handful of
 perfect coat buttons she had produced in
 Transfiguration.
 “What’ve we got this afternoon?” said Harry, hastily
 changing the subject.
 “Defense Against the Dark Arts,” said Hermione at
once.
 “Why, ” demanded Ron, seizing her schedule, “have
 you outlined all Lockhart’s lessons in little hearts?”
 P a g e | 106 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets – J.K. Rowling
 Hermione snatched the schedule back, blushing
 furiously.
 They finished lunch and went outside into the
 overcast courtyard. Hermione sat down on a stone
 step and buried her nose in Voyages with Vampires
 again. Harry and Ron stood talking about Quidditch
 for several minutes before Harry became aware that
 he was being closely watched. Looking up, he saw the
 very small, mousy-haired boy he’d seen trying on the
 Sorting Hat last night staring at Harry as though
 transfixed. He was clutching what looked like an
 ordinary Muggle camera, and the moment Harry
 looked at him, he went bright red.
 “All right, Harry? I’m — I’m Colin Creevey,” he said
 breathlessly, taking a tentative step forward. “I’m in
 Gryffindor, too. D’you think — would it be all right if
— can I have a picture?” he said, raising the camera
 hopefully.
 “A picture?” Harry repeated blankly.
 “So I can prove I’ve met you,” said Colin Creevey
 eagerly, edging further forward. “I know all about you.
 Everyone’s told me. About how you survived when
 You-Know-Who tried to kill you and how he
 disappeared and everything and how you’ve still got a
 lightning scar on your forehead” (his eyes raked
 Harry’s hairline) “and a boy in my dormitory said if I
 develop the film in the right potion, the pictures’ll
 move. ” Colin drew a great shuddering breath of
 excitement and said, “It’s amazing here, isn’t it? I
 never knew all the odd stuff I could do was magic till I
 got the letter from Hogwarts. My dad’s a milkman, he
 couldn’t believe it either. So I’m taking loads of
 pictures to send home to him. And it’d be really good
 if I had one of you” — he looked imploringly at Harry
 P a g e | 107 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets – J.K. Rowling
 — “maybe your friend could take it and I could stand next to you? And
 then, could you sign it?”
“Signed photos? You’re giving out signed photos,
 Potter?”
 Loud and scathing, Draco Malfoy’s voice echoed
 around the courtyard. He had stopped right behind
 Colin, flanked, as he always was at Hogwarts, by his
 large and thuggish cronies, Crabbe and Goyle.
 “Everyone line up!” Malfoy roared to the crowd. “Harry
 Potter’s giving out signed photos!”
 “No, I’m not,” said Harry angrily, his fists clenching.
 “Shut up, Malfoy.”
 “You’re just jealous,” piped up Colin, whose entire
 body was about as thick as Crabbe’s neck.
 “Jealous?” said Malfoy, who didn’t need to shout
 anymore: Half the courtyard was listening in. “Of
 what? I don’t want a foul scar right across my head,
 thanks. I don’t think getting your head cut open
 makes you that special, myself.”
 Crabbe and Goyle were sniggering stupidly.
 “Eat slugs, Malfoy,” said Ron angrily. Crabbe stopped
 laughing and started rubbing his knuckles in a
menacing way.
 “Be careful, Weasley,” sneered Malfoy. “You don’t
 want to start any trouble or your mommy’ll have to
 come and take you away from school.” He put on a
 shrill, piercing voice. “If you put another toe out of line
 —”
 P a g e | 108 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets – J.K. Rowling
 A knot of Slytherin fifth years nearby laughed loudly at this.
 “Weasley would like a signed photo, Potter,” smirked
 Malfoy. “It’d be worth more than his family’s whole
 house —”
 Ron whipped out his Spellotaped wand, but Hermione
 shut Voyages with Vampires with a snap and
 whispered, “Look out!”
 “What’s all this, what’s all this?” Gilderoy Lockhart
 was striding toward them, his turquoise robes
 swirling behind him. “Who’s giving out signed
 photos?”
 Harry started to speak but he was cut short as
 Lockhart flung an arm around his shoulders and
thundered jovially, “Shouldn’t have asked! We meet
 again, Harry!”
 Pinned to Lockhart’s side and burning with
 humiliation, Harry saw Malfoy slide smirking back
 into the crowd.
 “Come on then, Mr. Creevey,” said Lockhart, beaming
 at Colin. “A double portrait, can’t do better than that,
 and we’ll both sign it for you.”
 Colin fumbled for his camera and took the picture as
 the bell rang behind them, signaling the start of
 afternoon classes.
 “Off you go, move along there,” Lockhart called to the
 crowd, and he set off back to the castle with Harry,
 who was wishing he knew a good Vanishing Spell,
 still clasped to his side.
 P a g e | 109 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets – J.K. Rowling
 “A word to the wise, Harry,” said Lockhart paternally as they entered the
 building through a side door. “I
 covered up for you back there with young Creevey —
 if he was photographing me, too, your schoolmates
 won’t think you’re setting yourself up so much. …”
Deaf to Harry’s stammers, Lockhart swept him down
 a corridor lined with staring students and up a
 staircase.
 “Let me just say that handing out signed pictures at
 this stage of your career isn’t sensible — looks a tad
 bigheaded, Harry, to be frank. There may well come a
 time when, like me, you’ll need to keep a stack handy
 wherever you go, but” — he gave a little chortle — “I
 don’t think you’re quite there yet.”
 They had reached Lockhart’s classroom and he let
 Harry go at last. Harry yanked his robes straight and
 headed for a seat at the very back of the class, where
 he busied himself with piling all seven of Lockhart’s
 books in front of him, so that he could avoid looking
 at the real thing.
 The rest of the class came clattering in, and Ron and
 Hermione sat down on either side of Harry.
 “You could’ve fried an egg on your face,” said Ron.
 “You’d better hope Creevey doesn’t meet Ginny, or
 they’ll be starting a Harry Potter fan club.”
“Shut up,” snapped Harry. The last thing he needed
 was for Lockhart to hear the phrase “Harry Potter fan
 club.”
 When the whole class was seated, Lockhart cleared
 his throat loudly and silence fell. He reached forward,
 picked up Neville Longbottom’s copy of Travels with
 P a g e | 110 Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets – J.K. Rowling
 Trolls, and held it up to show his own, winking portrait on the front.
 “Me,” he said, pointing at it and winking as well.
 “Gilderoy Lockhart, Order of Merlin, Third Class,
 Honorary Member of the Dark Force Defense League,
 and five-time winner of Witch Weekly’s Most
Charming-Smile Award — but I don’t talk about that.
 I didn’t get rid of the Bandon Banshee by smiling at
 her!”
 He waited for them to laugh; a few people smiled
 weakly.
 “I see you’ve all bought a complete set of my books —
 well done. I thought we’d start today with a little quiz.
 Nothing to worry about — just to check how well
 www.ztcprep.com
you’ve read them, how much you’ve taken in —”
 When he had handed out the test papers he returned
 to the front of the class and said, “You have thirty
 minutes — start — now!”
 Harry looked down at his paper and read:
 1. What is Gilderoy Lockhart’s favorite color?
 2. What is Gilderoy Lockhart’s secret ambition?
 3. What, in your opinion, is Gilderoy Lockhart’s
 greatest achievement to date?
 On and on it went, over three sides of paper, right
 down to:
 54. When is Gilderoy Lockhart’s birthday, and what
 would his ideal gift be?